tonight there are growing signs that
Israel could be on the brink of
launching a full-scale ground invasion
of Gaza Israel's military says it's
expanding its ground operations there
and it has launched a massive aerial
bombardment targeting the terrorist
group
Hamas as night fell over Gaza Israel
stepped up its bombing campaign
again Israel aims to degrade the
military capabilities Hamas has to the
greatest degree possible
in the last few hours we increased the
strikes in Gaza the Air Force is
striking underground terrorist
facilities and terrorist facilities in a
very significant
way following the series of strikes of
the last few days the ground forces are
extending the ground operation
tonight Israel has steadily been
increasing its incursions into Gaza
using mobile units with tanks supported
by Jets and drones a steady stream of
attacks before an expected full-scale
Invasion and a warning from Israel on
Friday it accuses Hamas of using gaza's
largest medical complex the alifa
hospital as their military operational
headquarters when medical facilities are
used for Terror purposes they are liable
to lose their protection from attack in
accordance with international
law the challenge Israel faced
alifa hospital has become a refuge from
the bombing for tens of thousands of
Palestinians an appeal by Israel's
allies the United States has made clear
in both public and private conversations
that as Israel exercises its right and
indeed its responsibility to defend its
people against the terrorist group it
must do so in line with the rules of War
there are no law free zones in
war Israel has not yet succeeded in
stopping Hamas firing Rockets over the
border from Gaza the militant group says
it fired a number of salvos on
Friday Rockets like this one which hit a
residential building in Tel Aviv
wounding several Israelis a reminder
that the terrorist threat from Hamas is
still very much
alive well journalist Sami soal is
following this story in Jerusalem he has
more on the Israeli military's expanding
operations
tonight yeah so so not only have they
said that they're expanding the the
ground operations but we have now
reports from the ground from the north
of the Gaza Strip that Israeli tanks are
rolling in into the Gaza Strip and there
is also Hamas Hamas Fighters there that
are confronting them uh so so this is
like the most recent development earlier
this evening there was a bombarding of
the Gaza Strip uh people in the Gaza
Strip are saying that this has been the
worst bombardment since the beginning of
the Israeli uh campaign Israel has been
both from the air artillery and from the
sea the extent of this bombing is that
Israeli residents who live in
communities out the Gaza Strip have been
reporting that their houses have been
shaking and some of the windows have
been shattered as a result of this
bombardment that is taking place in the
Gaza Strip we also know that these
strikes hit a jaal which is the the
leading Palestinian telecommunications
company it hit their facility and now in
the Gaza Strip there's no internet and
this situation of course is very grave
and Sammy I I just want to make sure we
can confirm that you're saying that the
the Israeli military is saying that its
forces are encountering Hamas militants
inside Gaza so this is the urban Warfare
that we've been warned about
correct well we still don't know the
scope of this we still don't know
whether it's similar to what we've seen
in previous evenings or whether this is
something of of a larger scale but there
are Israeli tanks now in the northern
Gaza Strip and what can you tell us
about claims by the Israel Defense
Forces that the alifa hospital is being
used by Hamas militants inside
Gaza yeah well today the IDE of
spokesperson spoke to a foreign media uh
and told them uh that the Hamas
headquarters
the military headquarters are under the
shifa hospital that shifa hospital is
being used uh by Hamas Fighters that
there uh tunnels that are leading and
connecting between and under the
hospital to the network of Hamas tunnels
in the Gaza Strip I mean uh of course
Hamas has denied it they they issued a
statement in which they deny this and uh
clearly by making these kinds of
statements Israel is signaling to the
world that it regarding this hospital as
a legitimate Target yeah yeah and we we
have to remind our viewers we cannot um
verify these claims that are being made
by the military but it if it is true it
it does fall in line with what we've
been hearing from Israel all along that
Hamas uses civilians civilian um areas
as human Shields
right yeah I mean this kind of argument
is something that we've heard over the
years uh but you have to remember that
the Gaza Strip is a very crowded area
2.3 million people are living in the
Gaza Strip and clearly the Hamas
Fighters are located in the Gaza Strip
um I would also say that in Israel you
have also military facilities and
Military presence in civilian areas so I
this is not something which is unique to
Hamas but this is a point that Israel
has been raising again and again to
justify the kind of campaign that it's
waging against the leaders and
commanders of Hamas in the Gaza Strip
and explaining why there have been so
many civilan casualties throughout this
air
campaign journalist Sami Soko with with
the latest developments tonight from
Jerusalem Sammy thank
you well our coverage continues now with
Frank ledwitch he's a senior lecturer in
strategic studies at Portsmouth
University he's also a former UK
Military Intelligence officer and he
joins us tonight from Oxford Frank it's
good to see you again let's let's talk
about where we are right now Israel's
Defense Forces say that they are
expanding their operations tonight do
you think that this is the beginning of
that much anticipated ground
Invasion there are three indications
Brent that would indicate that it is a
beginning of a military operation uh and
I'll come back to that in a second first
is the communications blackout which
will include electronic uh Warfare to
deny Hamas Communications so we've seen
that for the last few hours and we'll
see that that go on and that will
include cyber cyber attacks as well as
well as taking down of radio towers uh
the second indication is a huge
bombardment and and we really are
talking about something considerable
here bombs are are being dropped at a
rate of about one every heavy bombs
every 10 seconds and finally there
there's the announcement of the Israeli
Defense Forces plus and I I I saw this
as well uh the the uh Israeli press is
picking up that Palestinians are saying
that Israeli tanks are conducting at
least a raid in force however the US are
advising the idea very strongly they
have a very senior General in the
Israeli headquarters
advising them not to conduct huge or
large scale operations but rather to
conduct what we would call pulsing
operations which is to say large scale
raids withdraw large scale raids to
achieve objectives withdraw I suspect
that's what we're going to see over the
next few weeks if we don't uh they will
know that they're not taking us
advice um the IDF says that the alifa
hospital in Gaza is being used by Hamas
militants as their main headquarters ERS
for military operations I mean they also
say that Hamas is using civilians as
human Shields now considering this
knowing that if you move into Gaza
you're talking about Urban Warfare is is
there any way that the Israeli military
even if they destroy Hamas that they can
win this battle because there's going to
be so many civilian lives that will be
lost well I have no doubt at all that
the IDF is uh is accurate on this not
for nothing it's h Hamas called a
terrorist organization we saw the
measure of them 3 weeks ago uh the main
weapon against the Israeli Defense Force
of course civilians and the IDF is more
than aware of that I think but also it's
fair to say the military center of
gravity of this operation at least on
hamas's part are the tunnel system and
the Israelis have plans for that it's
not they haven't just discovered now
that the headquarters of Hamas if if
they are there are underneath that
hospital that's something they'll be
aware of for a long time and they they
will have planned for that I seriously
doubt whether they're planning to take
down their hospital that would have that
would be probably be disproportionate
under international law and would of
course present them with political
problems as well they've got plans for
it for sure Egyptian officials are
saying that unidentified drones hit two
Egyptian Red Sea towns on Friday we've
got Israel accusing Yemen's iran-backed
houti Rebels having the intention of
harming Israel what can you tell us
about this
Frank last week an American Destroyer
the USS Carney shot down I think several
dozen tens of drones that seem to have
been fired from Yemen and were aimed
towards Israel the another drone fell on
taba I think yesterday which is near the
border the Israeli Air Force today
reported that it had engaged drones it
said it wasn't convinced it knew where
they came from but the heavy hints that
it was Yemen again and I suspect that
the drones that crashed on Israeli wrong
on Egyptian territory today were uh were
being fired from
Yemen military analyst Frank Le joining
us tonight from Oxford Frank as always
we appreciate your time thank
you thank you
Brent well meanwhile the situation for
the more than two million people trapped
inside Gaza it is growing worse by the
hour just a trickle of humanitarian Aid
has been arriving and supplies of food
Fuel and water have nearly run
out in the Gaza Strip the Relentless
bombing continues from the air
and from the
sea amid dire warnings that the trickle
of Aid that is getting in is nowhere
near enough basic services are
crumbling medicine is running out food
and water are running out the street of
Gaza have started overflowing with swich
Gaza is on the brink of a massive Health
aard at the risk of diseases
aling all of this is made worse by the
fuel
shortages around 200,000 people in
shelters receive fresh bread from the
world food program every day and the few
bakeries that are still open are
producing a fraction of what they were
before The Crisis
began with no other options this woman
has resorted to using whatever paper she
can find as fuel to bake bread on the
streets the
we've gone to get FL under bombardment
from a besieged area and we've brought
firewood from the streets and we're
risking Our Lives looking for
paper fresh water is also in short
supply many in Gaza are now queuing up
with bottles and canisters unsure when
the next delivery might make it
through Gaza Health authorities warn
that the hospitals are at Breaking Point
lacking medicine and fuel to to carry
out essential
operations the humanitarian situation on
the ground is looking increasingly
Bleak this woman unable to breastfeed
her baby and lacking access to milk
fears the
worst my son's skin is gradually turning
yellow due to the lack of breastfeeding
what has he done wrong what has this
baby done
[Music]
wrong this man Mourns the death of his
wife an eight-month-old baby both were
killed in an Israeli air
strike despite earlier Israeli
assurances that southern Gaza would be
spared it seems nowhere is safe in the
strip and fears about escalation will
only be exacerbated by the sheer scale
of the humanitarian
crisis but the UN says that it will be
forced to Halt its operations in Gaza if
fuel is not allowed into the territory
samah Hadid from the Norwegian Refugee
Council told us earlier what this would
mean for for the more than 2 million
gazans in need it means an absolute
catastrophe uh for over 2 million uh
people in Gaza because food is running
out water is running out and medicine is
running out and the aid that has come
through is just not enough it's nowhere
near enough and uh fuel is not being
allowed to be delivered into Gaza
hospitals need fuel to keep operating uh
water pumps require fuel bakeries
require fuel uh so it's an absolute
catastrophic situation and the events
tonight in in Gaza are terrifying Gaza
right now is under a full Communications
blackout uh and with the announcement
that the Israeli government has launched
um a ground operation uh we fear for the
worst yeah m i I just want to be clear
are you saying that your organization is
also going to have to ha its operations
in
Gaza well we've had to uh scale down our
operations because of the
bombardment uh and the lack of safety
for our colleagues on the ground uh
We've continued to deliver cash
assistance to support uh civilians and
families uh to buy basic food items and
other items on the market uh but the aid
relief is nowhere near enough to meet
the growing needs on the ground that
mean we need a urgent scale up of Aid
all Crossings need to be opened and the
Israeli government has to lift its Siege
off go off of Gaza and what about the
situation in terms of medical care we
know there are reports that many about a
third if not more of the hospitals in
Gaza have basically shut down are are
things improving as Aid slowly begins to
trickle into the territory I think there
was a report that what 10 European
doctors have
arrived the medical uh equipment and
supplies that are coming through are
simply not enough and hospitals right
now need fuel they need fuel and
electricity to keep running so that they
can treat people with the Right medical
supplies and care and this is just not
happening uh right now and with this
escalation in violence uh with uh
Israeli ground operation being launched
into Gaza we will see widespread uh
civilian Bloodshed and even more
destruction to civilian infrastructure
so our plea to the International
Community is to end this horrific
suffering call for a ceasefire enough is
enough whilst this catastrophe is
unfolding in Gaza world leaders are
still debating over a ceasefire at the
United Nations it's simply not good
enough and they must step up their
efforts Miss um I want to ask you what
you've been hearing from your people on
the ground in Gaza you know that the
Israeli military says that Hamas is
using at least one hospital as as its
headquarters where civilians where
patients are also being housed um can
your people can they confirm claims like
that have your people encountered Hamas
militants on the
ground these claims cannot be confirmed
uh and what we've seen over the past few
weeks is indiscriminate Israeli
bombardment over Gaza that has hit
civilian infrastructure has led to
civilian casualties on a widespread
scale uh over th thousands of children
have lost their lives uh under Israel
bombardment so we need the International
Community to really focus on ending this
suffering uh and preventing further
Bloodshed uh they really do need to step
up and call for a ceasefire s Hadid from
the Norwegian Refugee Council we
appreciate your time tonight thank
you thank
you